Tools AI Agent node#
The Tools Agent uses external tools and APIs to perform actions and retrieve information. It can understand the capabilities of different tools and determine which tool to use depending on the task. This agent helps integrate LLMs with various external services and databases.

This agent has an enhanced ability to work with tools and can ensure a standard output format.

The Tools Agent implements Langchain's tool calling interface. This interface describes available tools and their schemas. The agent also has improved output parsing capabilities, as it passes the parser to the model as a formatting tool.

Refer to AI Agent for more information on the AI Agent node itself.

You can use this agent with the Chat Trigger node. Attach a memory sub-node so that users can have an ongoing conversation with multiple queries. Memory doesn't persist between sessions.

This agent supports the following chat models:

OpenAI Chat Model
Groq Chat Model
Mistral Cloud Chat Model
Anthropic Chat Model
Azure OpenAI Chat Model
The Tools Agent can use the following tools...
Node parameters#
Configure the Tools Agent using the following parameters.

Prompt#
Select how you want the node to construct the prompt (also known as the user's query or input from the chat).

Choose from:

Take from previous node automatically: If you select this option, the node expects an input from a previous node called chatInput.
Define below: If you select this option, provide either static text or an expression for dynamic content to serve as the prompt in the Prompt (User Message) field.
Require Specific Output Format#
This parameter controls whether you want the node to require a specific output format. When turned on, n8n prompts you to connect one of these output parsers to the node:

Auto-fixing Output Parser
Item List Output Parser
Structured Output Parser
Node options#
Refine the Tools Agent node's behavior using these options:

System Message#
If you'd like to send a message to the agent before the conversation starts, enter the message you'd like to send.

Use this option to guide the agent's decision-ma